Name: Lucas Myers 
Date: 2/17/26
Environment(Linux, Visual Studio Code)
How to compile the project:
Type 'make'
Example of how to run the project:
 ./oss -n 3 -s 2 -t 4 -i 0.6

 1. Added barebones functions and skeleton code given. (Esentially created github and files then uploaded)

 2.Started on command line parsing by taking function from other project and adding -i

 3.Added variables

 4.Added while loop to monitor how many children have terminated and how many need to launch

 5.Created another loop to continously see how many children are currenly running, if its not at the max run another child.

 6. added Clock struct.

 7. Logic was wrong of while loop launched < n is for if children still need to be created and pipes to running > 0 which checks if children are still alive.

 8. added simple for loop to take in values from the the pcb.

 9. fixed loop by initializing loop with pid_t pid;

 10.Logic was also messed up for the other loop

 11. Added the basic logic for the process table in/out loops just need to test correctly.

 12. Started working on increment clock function.

 13. while loop had semicolon behind it so it wouldn't loop, running wasn't declared.

 14. Fork only happened once in the loop because of the if statement. Put inside main loop.

 15.Compiled correctly now need to work on clock in shared memory.

 16.Started making global variable for the clock in oss.

 19. Moved the shared memory creation inside the main.

20. Initialized the clock to 0.

21. Fixed how the pbc printed it now prints every seconds.

22. Added shared memory functions shmget() and shmat() to worker.

23. Added loop to worker so it checks the clock continously.

24. Ran into bug where talbe show 0 while will be at 310s

25. Added simple print messages in worker, going to start working on sharing the clock between the files.

26. Fixed huge bug with worker process where the clock was not seeing update clock values. Added volatile to shared memory pointer to prvent the compiler from caching the values.

27. Added the signal handling from skeleton code and made sure it cleaned up memory when executed.

28. Limited the PCB from recieving the [20] output from skeleton code and only used the data from entered values.

29.Added logic to input values so command line arguments can be called by themselves.


KNOWN BUGS

Output from the oss and worker may interleave 

KNOWN BEHAVIOR

Clock is not sync'd with actual real time


Generative AI Used: ChatGPT

Prompts Used:

1.Help me implement shared memory between oss and worker in C++

2. Show me how to convert float time values into seconds and nanoseconds

3.Help me implement a simulated clock without using sleep or usleep.

4.Help me implement interval-based child launching in C++.

5.Show me how to implement signal handling and alarm in Linux C++

6. Help me create a Makefile that compiles two executables

7.Debugging shared memory synchonization issues

8.Correct use of volatile with shared memory

9.Fixing non-blocking waitpid() logic

10.How to structure the main control loop for process management

Summary

ChatGPT was used mostly for debugging the shared memory syncing between files, there were a few issues with the table and worker displaying the correct times, it helped improve the management logic and improving the proccess. It helped with me understanding how to properly use volatile with the memory between files. 

I found ChatGPT useful and a big help in debugging the processes.
